OSDOCS Speeding Up Pulling Container Images/CRI-O Additional Storage Support (#110809)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-configuring.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // * nodes/pods/nodes-pods-image-volume.adoc

Reviewer: Wrong assembly path if my previous statements are correct:

```suggestion
// * nodes/nodes/nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage.adoc
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-configuring-_{context}"]

Reviewer: Extra hyphen before `_{context}` produces a malformed anchor.

```suggestion
[id="nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-configuring_{context}"]
```

= Configuring additional storage locations for CRI-O

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure additional CRI-O storage locations for OCI artifacts, container images, or container image layers by using the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` custom resource (CR). 

> Use the `additionalArtifactStores` field to specify read-only locations where CRI-O stores and resolves these objects. CRI-O checks these locations in order before falling back to the default storage location.

Reviewer: This implies `additionalArtifactStores` handles all three object types.

```suggestion
Use the `additionalArtifactStores`, `additionalImageStores`, and `additionalLayerStores` fields to specify read-only locations where CRI-O resolves these objects. CRI-O checks these locations in order before falling back to the default storage location.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
When using multiple `ContainerRuntimeConfig` resources, merge all additional storage configurations into a single `ContainerRuntimeConfig` for each machine config pool. Multiple `ContainerRuntimeConfig` resources affecting the same configuration file might result in only a subset taking effect.
====

.Prerequisites

> * You enabled the required Technology Preview features for your cluster by adding the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set to the `FeatureGate` CR named `cluster`. For information about enabling Feature Gates, see _Enabling features using feature gates_.

Reviewer: `_Enabling features using feature gates_` is italic text, not a cross-reference. Replace with an `xref::` to the feature gates page. The specific feature gate is `AdditionalStorageConfig`.

Author: We are not allowed to use links in modules, only at the higher assembly level. 

We generally suggest enabling the TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set, rather than a specific gate.

*** Use a daemon set to run the plugin as a privileged container.
*** Use a machine config to install the binary and configure it as a systemd service.
*** Use Image mode for OpenShift to install the plugin in a custom {op-system} image.

** You converted the container images to a lazy-pull-compatible format, such as eStargz or Nydus.
** Your container registry must support HTTP range requests.

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file for the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` CR:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: ContainerRuntimeConfig
metadata:
  name: crio-additional-stores
spec:
  machineConfigPoolSelector:
    matchLabels:
      pools.operator.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker: ""
  containerRuntimeConfig:
    additionalArtifactStores:
      - path: /mnt/ssd-artifacts
      - path: /mnt/nfs-shared-artifacts
    additionalImageStores:
      - path: /mnt/nfs-image-cache
      - path: /mnt/ssd-images
    additionalLayerStores:
      - path: /var/lib/stargz-store
----
where:
+
--
`spec.machineConfigPoolSelector`:: Specifies a label associated with the nodes that you want to update.

> `spec.containerRuntimeConfig.additionalArtifactStores.path`:: Specifies the path to the directory that contains OCI artifacts. You can specify up to 10 directories.

Reviewer: CRI-O expects an `artifacts/` subdirectory within this path (see cri-o/cri-o#9702).

```suggestion
`spec.containerRuntimeConfig.additionalArtifactStores.path`:: Specifies the path to the directory that contains OCI artifacts. CRI-O looks for content in an `artifacts/` subdirectory within this path. You can specify up to 10 directories.
```

> `spec.containerRuntimeConfig.additionalImageStores.path`:: Specifies the path to the an NFS share that contains container images. You can specify up to 10 directories.

Reviewer: Grammar: "the path to the an"

```suggestion
`spec.containerRuntimeConfig.additionalImageStores.path`:: Specifies the path to an NFS share or other location that contains pre-populated container images. You can specify up to 10 directories.
```

`spec.containerRuntimeConfig.additionalLayerStores.path`:: Specifies the path to the directory that contains lazy-pull-compatible-formatted container image layers. You can specify up to 5 directories.
--
+
The specified path must meet the following criteria:
+
--
* Contains between 1 and 256 characters
* Is an absolute path, starting with the `/` character
* Contains only alphanumeric characters: `a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `/`, `.`, `_`, and `-`
* Cannot contain consecutive forward slashes
--
+

> For an image or layer store, the MCO automatically appends the `:ref` suffix to each layer store path. This suffix switches the container storage library from storing actual image layers (blobs) to storing references (pointers) to where those layers can be found, which is required for lazy-pulling plugins. You do not need to include the suffix in the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` path.

Reviewer: `:ref` applies only to layer stores, not image stores. Also depends on the MCO auto-append rework (openshift/machine-config-operator#5858).

```suggestion
For a layer store, the MCO automatically appends the `:ref` suffix to the path when writing to `storage.conf`. This suffix switches the container storage library from storing actual image layers (blobs) to storing references (pointers) to where those layers can be found, which is required for lazy pulling plugins. You do not need to include the suffix in the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` path.
```

+
[NOTE]
====
If a path does not exist or is inaccessible at runtime, CRI-O generates a warning and continues with the remaining stores. The default storage location is always used as a fallback.
====

. Create the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <container-runtime-config>.yaml
----

.Verification

. After the nodes have returned to the `Ready` status, check that the new stores have been added to the node configuration:

.. Start a debug pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name>
----
+
where:

<node_name>:: Specifies the name of one of the nodes in the affected machine config pool.

.. Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell:
+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-5.1# chroot /host
----

> .. For an artifact store, look at the contents of the `etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-ctrcfg-additionalArtifactStores` directory:

Reviewer: This is a file, not a directory. Also missing leading `/` in the path.

```suggestion
.. For an artifact store, look at the contents of the `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-ctrcfg-additionalArtifactStores` file:
```

Author: Ugh. I saw that, meant to circle back and fix it, but forgot apparently!

+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-5.1# cat /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-ctrcfg-additionalArtifactStores
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
[crio]
  [crio.runtime]
    additional_artifact_stores = ["/mnt/ssd-artifacts", "/mnt/nfs-shared-artifacts"]
----

> .. For an image or layer store, look at the contents of the `etc/containers/storage.conf` directory:

Reviewer: Same: file, not directory, and missing leading `/`.

```suggestion
.. For an image or layer store, look at the contents of the `/etc/containers/storage.conf` file:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-5.1# cat /etc/containers/storage.conf
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

> TBD

Reviewer: Placeholder needs actual output. Example based on the MCO output format (the `:ref` in the output depends on the MCO auto-append landing):

```suggestion
[storage]
  [storage.options]
    additionalimagestores = ["/mnt/nfs-image-cache", "/mnt/ssd-images"]
    additionallayerstores = ["/var/lib/stargz-store:ref"]
```

Author: Thnaks! Bhargavi gave me the output overnight.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes/nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-configuring_{context}"]
= Configuring additional storage locations for CRI-O

[role="_abstract"]

> You can configure additional the CRI-O container engine storage locations for OCI artifacts, container images, or container image layers by using the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` custom resource (CR). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure additional storage locations for the CRI-O container engine for OCI artifacts, container images, or container image layers by using the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` custom resource (CR).
```

> You can configure additional storage locations for the CRI-O container engine to store OCI artifacts, container images, or container image layers by using the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` custom resource (CR). Using dedicated storage locations for these CRI-O objects can reduce application startup time and make your applications run more efficiently.

Reviewer 3: 347 characters. Suggest putting the goal first (reduce application startup time and make your applications run more efficiently) and either trimming or splitting into a second para to hit the count

[IMPORTANT]
====
When using multiple `ContainerRuntimeConfig` resources, merge all additional storage configurations into a single `ContainerRuntimeConfig` for each machine config pool. Multiple `ContainerRuntimeConfig` resources affecting the same configuration file might result in only a subset of the changes taking effect.
====

.Prerequisites

* You enabled the required Technology Preview features for your cluster by adding the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set to the `FeatureGate` CR named `cluster`. For information about enabling Feature Gates, see "Enabling features using feature gates".
+
[WARNING]
====
Enabling the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set on your cluster cannot be undone and prevents minor version updates. This feature set allows you to enable these Technology Preview features on test clusters, where you can fully test them. Do not enable this feature set on production clusters.
====

* If you are configuring the `additionalImageStores` or `additionalLayerStores` parameter, the target storage paths must exist and be accessible on the nodes and the container image or layers must be present in the directory.

> * If you are configuring the `additionalLayerStores` parameter, you must meet the following additional prerequisites:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you are configuring the `additionalImageStores` or `additionalLayerStores` field, the target storage paths must exist and be accessible on the nodes and the container image or layers must be present in the directory.

* If you are configuring the `additionalLayerStores` field, you must meet the following additional prerequisites:  
```

> ** A supported storage plugin binary must be installed on each node, such as Stargz Store or Nydus Storage Plugin. See "Additional resources" for more information. You must have installed the plugin by using one of the following methods:

Reviewer 3: I don't think we can really refer to this heading since we don't control how it shows up postmigration:

> See "Additional resources" for more information.

Should refer the user to the actual link titles instead

+
[NOTE]
====
If a path does not exist or is inaccessible at runtime, CRI-O generates a warning and continues with the remaining stores. The default storage location is always used as a fallback.
====

. Create the `ContainerRuntimeConfig` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <container_runtime_config>.yaml
----
+
Replace `<container_runtime_config>` with the name of the YAML file.
+
After you configure any of these new storage locations, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) reboots the affected nodes with the new configuration. 

.Verification

. After the nodes have returned to the `Ready` status, check that the new stores have been added to the node configuration:

.. Start a debug pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name>
----
+
where:

> <node_name>:: Specifies the name of one of the nodes in the affected machine config pool.

Reviewer 3: If you want this to be more compact, you don't need a DL of one
```suggestion
+
where `<node_name>` specifies the name of one of the nodes in the affected machine config pool.
```

But either way, you do need backticks around `<node_name>`

```suggestion
+
where:

`<node_name>`:: Specifies the name of one of the nodes in the affected machine config pool.
```

> .. Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> sh-5.1# chroot /host

Reviewer 3: This is probably just my ignorance, but why is this not just plain `#` like so?
```suggestion
# chroot /host
```

Author: Because that's the way it's always been done. That's why!  ;-)

A quick search, it looks about 50/50 in terms of including or excluding the `sh-` part of the prompt. 

I seem to recall, and I am likely incorrect, at one time the prompt changed when you did the chroot /host command. Maybe that's why? Whenever I give instructions to use debug node, I try to copy/paste existing commands to keep everything consistent.

----

> ** For an artifact store, review the contents of the `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-ctrcfg-additionalArtifactStores` file by using the following command:

Reviewer 3: Just noticed these three steps use "by using the following command" instead of "by running the following command" as above

+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-5.1# cat /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-ctrcfg-additionalArtifactStores
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
[crio]
  [crio.runtime]
    additional_artifact_stores = ["/mnt/ssd-artifacts", "/mnt/nfs-shared-artifacts"]
----

> ** For an image store, review the contents of the `etc/containers/storage.conf` file by using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For an image store, review the contents of the `/etc/containers/storage.conf` file by using the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
sh-5.1# cat /etc/containers/storage.conf
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
[storage]
  [storage.options]

>    additionalimagestores = ["/var/lib/additional-images"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   additionalimagestores = ["/mnt/nfs-image-cache", "/mnt/ssd-images"]
```

----

> ** For a layer store, review the contents of the `etc/containers/storage.conf` file by using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For a layer store, review the contents of the `/etc/containers/storage.conf` file by using the following command:
```
